
  THE

  WILL

  OF

  SAMUEL APPLETON;

  WITH

  REMARKS

  BY

  ONE OF THE EXECUTORS.


  BOSTON:
  PRINTED BY JOHN WILSON & SON,
  22, SCHOOL STREET.
  1853.




REMARKS.


Samuel Appleton was born at New Ipswich, N.H., June 22, 1766, and
died, without issue, at his residence in Boston, on Tuesday, July 12,
1853; having just entered on the eighty-eighth year of his age.

In November, 1819, he married Mrs. Mary Gore, who was much younger
than himself. This union has been marked, on his side, by the most
unvarying confidence and sincere affection. He has ever found his own
delight in gratifying each wish of his wife with an almost boundless
indulgence. And she--the brilliant and happy mistress of his
hospitable mansion--has been alike admirable, when presiding over its
social circle, or its more public gayeties; and when, in its private
recesses, she has devoted herself to what she has ever felt to be her
highest duty and her chief privilege,--that of guarding the declining
years of her husband with the most kind and thoughtful care; cheering
his pathway to the tomb by those considerate attentions, which, both
in life and in death, he so gratefully appreciated and acknowledged.

On the last morning of his life, he enjoyed his usual health. During
the day, however, he suffered pain and uneasiness, apparently the
result of indigestion. Mrs. Appleton, therefore, remained constantly
with him, but without feeling any serious apprehensions. He at length
seemed to be entirely relieved by the means used, and said, "I will
now try to go to sleep." In a few moments, Mrs. Appleton was alarmed
by hearing him breathe once or twice much more loudly than usual. She
ran to his bedside, and his favorite female attendant was immediately
summoned. He was still lying in the same attitude of repose. The sleep
that had fallen upon him so gently was the sleep of death!

This event at once called forth a universal and spontaneous expression
of regard for the deceased from the community in which he had so long
lived. It was unrestrained by any differences of political opinion or
of religious sentiment. Thus, in the "Boston Post," the organ of the
Democratic party of Boston, there appeared the following
communication:--

    "SAMUEL APPLETON is dead! Never has there been summoned from
    among us a purer man or a more public-spirited citizen.
    Possessing strong natural sense and the most plain and
    unaffected manners, he was truly simple-hearted and
    noble-minded. There was nothing about him of ostentation or
    pretence. All his _acts_, during a long life, praise him.
    Beginning with humble prospects, by industry and intelligence
    he became one of our wealthiest merchants. As a country
    schoolmaster, during the winter months, he was once, when a
    young man, '_put up at auction_, to be boarded out in the
    family that would consent to take him at the lowest rate.'[1]
    Latterly, for many years, probably not a day has passed without
    the performance of some deed of kindness great or small,--some
    act of public or private munificence; and each evening saw him
    sink to rest, happy in the consciousness that he had made
    others happy. In a notice of him, as a benefactor of one of our
    chief charitable institutions, published not long since, it is
    said: 'In advanced age, and unable to walk from his house, he
    continues in the highest and best sense to enjoy life. He has,
    indeed, no children; but a numerous band of nephews and nieces
    look up to him with truly filial regard. Indeed, the community
    itself ventures to apply to him _their_ familiar and
    affectionate appellation of "Uncle Sam." This name, in the
    abstract so dear to every patriot, could not be more worthily
    bestowed.'[2] That life, so honorable and so useful, rendered
    sweet by the daily blessings of those whose necessities or
    sufferings have been relieved by his bounty, has been fitly
    closed by a calm and peaceful death."

Obituary notices of a like favorable character, and characteristic
anecdotes, &c., were inserted in the "Daily Evening Transcript," the
"Boston Courier," and the "Christian Register," and also in various
other journals.

Public funeral services were held at the Stone Chapel, on Friday
afternoon, at four o'clock. The Hon. Thomas H. Perkins, and a few
other surviving contemporaries of the deceased, were present among the
assemblage of relatives and friends by which the church was filled.

He was buried at Mount Auburn, in a lot which he had purchased many
years ago, and on which he had erected a costly monument. Designing to
embellish that field of the dead, he had authorized an artist in a
foreign country to execute this work without regard to expense. When
completed, it was not in accordance with the simple tastes of Mr.
Appleton. He even desired that he might be buried in his tomb, under a
church in Boston, rather than in the beautiful spot which he had thus
selected and adorned. The existing ordinance of the city rendered it
impossible to comply with this suggestion; and indeed it seemed to be,
on other grounds, inexpedient.

At a stated quarterly meeting of the Trustees of the Massachusetts
General Hospital, held on the same day, the following preamble and
votes, as proposed by the Chairman, were unanimously adopted, viz.:--

    "The funeral of the late Hon. Samuel Appleton takes place this
    afternoon; and the bells of the city are now tolling as a
    public expression of respect for one of its worthiest sons and
    its noblest benefactors, who, at the advanced age of
    eighty-seven years, has died universally beloved and regretted.

    "Formerly a Trustee of this Institution, and ever cherishing a
    lively interest in its welfare, we are happy to acknowledge our
    indebtedness to him, alike for his valuable personal services,
    and for a large share of that bounty which he has always so
    wisely and so liberally bestowed.

    "This Board would present to the widow of the deceased, by whose
    affectionate attentions and devoted care his life has been for
    so many years prolonged and rendered happy, the assurances of
    their profound sympathy, now that she has lost a companion and
    friend by whom she was most tenderly beloved.

    "_Voted_, That this Board do now adjourn to attend the funeral
    of the deceased."

Mr. Appleton left a Will and Codicil, of which a few copies are
printed for the use of his executors and legatees.

These documents were opened and read in the presence of the widow and
some of the relatives, on Saturday, July 16; and the following
anecdote was then related by one of the Executors:--

The late Isaac Appleton Jewett was a favorite nephew of the deceased,
and, as such, had a bequest of $30,000, and was eventually to receive
besides one-tenth part of the residuary property. He died in January
last, leaving as his heir-at-law a half-sister, who, by the terms of
the will, became entitled to these bequests. There was no
blood-relationship between her and the Testator. _A comparative
stranger would thus be a larger legatee than any one of his own
kindred._ The Executor called Mr. Appleton's attention to this fact.
His reply was: "I am much obliged for the suggestion: it was a proper
one for you to make. I will consider, and let you know my decision
to-morrow." The next day he said: "I have been thinking of what you
mentioned to me; and if, in the other world, there is any knowledge of
what is done in this, I should not like to have my nephew, whom I so
loved and trusted, find that my first act, on learning his death, is
the revocation or curtailment of a bequest made in his favor, and
which, if he had survived me, would have eventually benefited her who
was nearest and dearest to him. _The will must stand as it is._" This
confirmation of a private bequest is no less honorable to the memory
of Mr. Appleton, than are those other two provisions of his will by
which he so bountifully remembers the servants of his household, and
appropriates to public uses so large a part of his princely fortune.

                                                           N.I.B.


       *       *       *       *       *

FOOTNOTES:

[1] "History of the Massachusetts Hospital," 1851.

[2] "History of the Massachusetts Hospital," 1851.

       *       *       *       *       *




WILL OF SAMUEL APPLETON.




THE

LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT

OF

SAMUEL APPLETON.


Be it remembered, That I, SAMUEL APPLETON, of Boston, in the County of
Suffolk and State of Massachusetts, merchant, being of sound disposing
mind and memory, and in good health, but aware of the uncertainty of
life, and desirous of making a disposition of such property as I may
leave at the time of my decease, do make, publish, and declare this my
last Will and Testament, in manner and form following, to wit:--

    [Sidenote: To his wife, $122,000.]

I give and bequeath to my beloved wife, Mary Appleton, one hundred and
thirty thousand dollars, in the manner following, to wit:--

    [Sidenote: Viz. $100,000.]

1st. The sum of one hundred thousand dollars in cash, to be paid to
her by my executors.

    [Sidenote: House, 53, Beacon-street, at $14,000;]

2d. My land and house in Beacon-street, Boston, numbered fifty-three,
now occupied by Mrs. Goodwin, and valued by me at fourteen thousand
dollars, to hold to her and her heirs.

    [Sidenote: And $6000 to put said House in order.]

3d. The sum of six thousand dollars in cash to be paid to her by my
executors for the purpose of putting said house in good order and
condition.

    [Sidenote: Or the $20,000 in cash, if she prefers.]

If, however, my wife do elect to accept the sum of twenty thousand
dollars in cash, instead of said land and house in Beacon-street, and
said six thousand dollars, then and in that case it is my will that
the sum of twenty thousand dollars in cash be paid to her by my
executors.

    [Sidenote: A clause revoked by the Codicil.]

[4th. Any of the plate and furniture belonging to me at the time of my
decease, at the appraised value thereof, to the amount of eight
thousand dollars.]

    [Sidenote: Pew, horses, &c., shares in Athenæum, $2000.]

5th. My pew in King's Chapel in Boston, numbered two; also two shares
in the Boston Athenæum; also the horses and carriages belonging to me
at the time of my decease,--all valued by me at two thousand dollars.

    [Sidenote: All in lieu of dower.]

The provision thus made for my beloved wife is designed to be in full
satisfaction of her right of dower, or thirds, in my estate.


    [Sidenote: To the children of Isaac Appleton, $60,000; viz.:--]

I give and bequeath to the heirs of my brother Isaac Appleton, of
Dublin, State of New Hampshire, the sum of sixty thousand dollars, to
be distributed among them in the manner following, to wit:--

    [Sidenote: To Mrs. Todd, $3000;]

1st. To Mrs. Sarah Todd, of Byron, State of New York, daughter of my
brother Isaac Appleton, the sum of three thousand dollars.

    [Sidenote: And to each of her six children, $3000.]

To the six children of the said Sarah Todd, grandchildren of my
brother Isaac Appleton, the sum of three thousand dollars to each and
every one of them.

    [Sidenote: To Mrs. Mary Davis, $3000;]

2d. To Mrs. Mary Davis, of Lee County, State of Illinois, daughter of
my brother Isaac Appleton, the sum of three thousand dollars.

    [Sidenote: And her son, $3000.]

To Cyrus A. Davis, son of the said Mary Davis, grandson of my brother
Isaac Appleton, the sum of three thousand dollars.

    [Sidenote: To Mrs. Kendall, $3000.]

3d. To Mrs. Harriet G. Kendall, of Dublin, State of New Hampshire,
daughter of my brother Isaac Appleton, the sum of three thousand
dollars.

    [Sidenote: To her three children, each $3000.]

To the three children[3] of the said Harriet G. Kendall, grandchildren
of my brother Isaac Appleton, the sum of three thousand dollars to
each and every one of them.

    [Sidenote: To David Appleton, $3000.]

4th. To David Appleton, of Dublin, State of New Hampshire, son of my
brother Isaac Appleton, the sum of three thousand dollars.

    [Sidenote: To Joseph's four children, each $3000; viz.
    Joseph B., Eugene, Mrs. Bagley, Mrs. Preston.]

5th. To Joseph B. Appleton, of Lee County, State of Illinois; to
Eugene Appleton; to Mrs. Celestia Bagley; to Mrs. Mary Preston; being
the four children of Joseph Appleton deceased, and grandchildren of my
brother Isaac Appleton,--the sum of three thousand dollars to each and
every one of them.

    [Sidenote: To Mrs. Sarah Davis, $3000.]

6th. To Mrs. Sarah Davis, of Ashby, State of Massachusetts, daughter
of Mrs. Emily Eastabrooks deceased, and granddaughter of my brother
Isaac Appleton, the sum of three thousand dollars.

    [Sidenote: To Mrs. Marr, $3000.]

7th. To Mrs. Mary Jane Marr, of Scarboro', State of Maine, daughter of
Samuel Appleton deceased, and granddaughter of my brother Isaac
Appleton, the sum of three thousand dollars.

    [Sidenote: To the children of Dr. Moses Appleton, $60,000; viz.:]

I give and bequeath to the four children of my late brother, Doctor
Moses Appleton, of Waterville, State of Maine, the sum of sixty
thousand dollars, to be distributed among them in the manner
following, to wit:--

    [Sidenote: Samuel, $15,000.]

1st. To Samuel Appleton, of Waterville, State of Maine, son of my late
brother, Doctor Moses Appleton, the sum of fifteen thousand dollars.

    [Sidenote: Moses L., $15,000.]

2d. To Moses L. Appleton, of Bangor, State of Maine, son of my late
brother, Doctor Moses Appleton, the sum of fifteen thousand dollars.

    [Sidenote: Mrs. Wells, $15,000.]

3d. To Mrs. Ann Louisa Wells, of Portland, State of Maine, daughter of
my late brother, Dr. Moses Appleton, the sum of fifteen thousand
dollars.

    [Sidenote: Mrs. Plaisted, $15,000.]

4th. To Mrs. Mary Jane Plaisted, of Waterville, State of Maine,
daughter of my late brother, Doctor Moses Appleton, the sum of fifteen
thousand dollars.

    [Sidenote: To Eben Appleton's children, $60,000; viz.:--]


I give and bequeath to the three children of my deceased brother Eben
Appleton, the sum of sixty thousand dollars, to be distributed among
them in the manner following, to wit:

    [Sidenote: S.A. Appleton, $25,000.]

1st. To Samuel A. Appleton, of Boston, son of my deceased brother Eben
Appleton, the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars.

    [Sidenote: Wm. S. Appleton, $25,000.]

2d. To William S. Appleton, of Baltimore, State of Maryland, son of my
deceased brother Eben Appleton, the sum of twenty-five thousand
dollars.

    [Sidenote: Mrs. Blatchford, $10,000.]

3d. To Mrs. Caroline F. Blatchford, of Auburn, State of New York,
daughter of my deceased brother Eben Appleton, the sum of ten thousand
dollars.


    [Sidenote: To the children of Nathan Appleton, $60,000; viz.:]

I give and bequeath to the six children of my brother Nathan Appleton,
of Boston, the sum of sixty thousand dollars, to be distributed among
them in the manner following, to wit:--

    [Sidenote: Mrs. Mackintosh, $10,000.]

1st. To Mrs. Mary Mackintosh, daughter of my brother Nathan Appleton,
the sum of ten thousand dollars.

    [Sidenote: Mrs. Longfellow, $10,000.]

2d. To Mrs. Fanny E. Longfellow, daughter of my brother Nathan
Appleton, the sum of ten thousand dollars.

    [Sidenote: Thomas G., $10,000.]

3d. To Thomas G. Appleton, son of my brother Nathan Appleton, the sum
of ten thousand dollars.

    [Sidenote: Harriot, $10,000.]

4th. To Harriot Appleton, daughter of my brother Nathan Appleton, the
sum of ten thousand dollars.

    [Sidenote: William S., $10,000.]

5th. To William S. Appleton, son of my brother Nathan Appleton, the
sum of ten thousand dollars.

    [Sidenote: Nathan, $10,000.]

6th. To Nathan Appleton, son of my brother Nathan Appleton, the sum of
ten thousand dollars.


    [Sidenote: To Mrs. Barrett's children, $30,000, viz.:]

I give and bequeath to the two children of my sister, Mary Barrett, of
New Ipswich, State of New Hampshire, the sum of thirty thousand
dollars, to be distributed between them in the manner following, to
wit:--

    [Sidenote: Mrs. Bent, $15,000.]

1st. To Mrs. Mary Narcissa Bent, daughter of my sister Mary Barrett,
the sum of fifteen thousand dollars.

    [Sidenote: Mrs. Spalding, $15,000.]

2d. To Mrs. Dora E. Spalding, daughter of my sister Mary Barrett, the
sum of fifteen thousand dollars.


    [Sidenote: To Mrs. Jewett's son, Isaac A. Jewett, $30,000.]

I give and bequeath to Isaac Appleton Jewett, son of my deceased
sister Emily Jewett, the sum of thirty thousand dollars.

    [Sidenote: To Maria Goodwin, $7000.]

I give and bequeath to Miss Maria Goodwin, niece of my beloved wife,
who has for many years resided in my house as one of my family, the
sum of seven thousand dollars.


    [Sidenote: Mrs. Goodwin, $1000.]

I give and bequeath to Mrs. Maria Goodwin, sister of my beloved wife,
the sum of one thousand dollars.


    [Sidenote: Mary Goodwin, $1000.]

I give and bequeath to Miss Mary Goodwin, daughter of the said Mrs.
Maria Goodwin, the sum of one thousand dollars.


    [Sidenote: Delia Goodwin, $1000.]

I give and bequeath to Miss Delia Goodwin, daughter of the said Mrs.
Maria Goodwin, the sum of one thousand dollars.


    [Sidenote: Rev. E. Peabody, $5000.]

I give and bequeath to my friend and pastor, the Rev. Ephraim Peabody,
of Boston, the sum of five thousand dollars.


    [Sidenote: The servants, $5000.]

I give and bequeath to the servants who may be living with me at the
time of my decease the sum of five thousand dollars, to be distributed
among them in the manner and according to proportions fixed upon by
my beloved wife.


    [Sidenote: To his Executors, $200,000 for public uses.]

And I do also hereby give and bequeath to my executors hereinafter
named--or such of them as shall accept the trust, the survivors or
survivor of them, to be by them applied, disposed of, and distributed,
for scientific, literary, religious, or charitable purposes--the
following manufacturing stocks at their par value, estimated at two
hundred thousand dollars, and situated as follows, to wit:--

1st. _At Manchester, State of New Hampshire._

    Fifty shares in the Amoskeag Manufacturing Company.
    Forty shares in the Stark Mills.
    Ten shares in the Manchester Print Works.

2d. _At Lowell, State of Massachusetts._

    Twenty shares in the Merrimac Manufacturing Company.
    Twenty shares in the Appleton Manufacturing Company.
    Twenty shares in the Hamilton Manufacturing Company.
    Twenty shares in the Suffolk Manufacturing Company.
    Twenty shares in the Massachusetts Cotton Mills.

My wishes in regard to the particular institutions or objects to which
the aforesaid manufacturing stocks are to be applied, and also the
time and mode of the application thereof, I intend to make known to
my executors; and I feel sure that they will strictly comply with the
same; and, in default of any such directions from me, I have
confidence in their making such a disposition and distribution of said
property as they will think would be most likely to meet my
approbation.


    [Sidenote: Powers of sale, &c.]

    [Sidenote: Estate to be settled in 2 years.]

I hereby fully authorize and empower and direct my executors
hereinafter named, or such of them as shall accept the trust, the
survivors or survivor of them, or any administrator on my estate, to
sell and convey at public auction, or by private sale, at such times
and on such conditions as they shall judge best, any and all estate
and property, real, personal, and mixed, of which I may die seized or
possessed, saving and excepting only such as herein is specifically
given to my beloved wife; and likewise the said land and house devised
to my beloved wife, in case she shall elect not to take the same; and
to make and deliver good and sufficient conveyances and transfers
thereof; the purchasers to be in nowise bound to see to the
appropriation of the purchase-money: it being my wish that my estate
should be settled as soon as convenient after my decease, and, if
practicable, within two years thereafter.

    [Sidenote: Residue to his nephews, nieces, &c. in sums
    corresponding to their specific bequests respectively.]

If, after the conversion of the residue of my estate into money, and
the payment of all my debts, and the distribution and payment of all
the bequests in this my Will, contained in accordance with the
foregoing dispositions, any residue should remain, it is my will that
the amount of said residue be distributed among the children and
grandchildren of my brother Isaac Appleton, and among the children of
my late brother Doctor Moses Appleton, and among the children of my
deceased brother Eben Appleton, and among the children of my brother
Nathan Appleton, and among the children of my sister Mary Barrett, and
of my deceased sister Emily Jewett, hereinbefore named, in proportions
corresponding to the amounts or sums which said heirs are respectively
entitled to receive by virtue of the original dispositions in this my
Will.

    [Sidenote: No legacy to lapse by death of legatee.]

If any of the legatees named in this Will should die in my lifetime,
then and in that case, whatever is herein given to such legatee I give
to and among those who at my decease may be heirs-at-law of such
legatee by the Statute of Distributions of this Commonwealth, as to
any real estate of which said legatee should then have died seized.

    [Sidenote: Liability of Executors.]

I direct that my executors shall each be liable only for his own
actual receipts and his own wilful defaults, and not the one for the
other or others.

    [Sidenote: Executors named.]

I appoint Nathan Appleton, William Appleton, Nathaniel Ingersoll
Bowditch, and Isaac Appleton Jewett, to be the executors of this my
last Will and Testament, hereby revoking all Wills by me heretofore
made.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and seal on this
twenty-eighth day of February, in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundred and fifty-one.

        (Signed)
                                     SAML. APPLETON [AND A SEAL].

  Signed, sealed, published, and declared by
    said Testator to be his last Will and
    Testament, in presence of us, who, at
    his request, and in his presence, and in
    presence of each other, have hereunto
    set our names as witnesses.

                           JOSEPH TILDEN.
                           MOSES L. HALE.
                           FRANKLIN H. STORY.


       *       *       *       *       *

FOOTNOTES:

[3] One of these children died before the Testator. The father, as his
heir, is entitled to his share, by a subsequent provision of the
Will.

       *       *       *       *       *




CODICIL.


I, SAMUEL APPLETON, of Boston, in the County of Suffolk, and State of
Massachusetts, merchant, having further considered my last Will and
Testament, bearing date the twenty-eighth day of February, in the year
of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fifty-one, do think proper
to make and publish the following as a Codicil thereunto.


    [Sidenote: Revokes a clause of the Will;]

I do hereby revoke and cancel that clause in said last Will and
Testament, giving unto my beloved wife "any of the plate and furniture
belonging to me at the time of my decease, at the appraised value
thereof, to the amount of eight thousand dollars;" and in lieu thereof
I do make the following dispositions:--

    [Sidenote: And gives to widow his mansion-house, 37,
    Beacon-street,]

I give and devise unto my beloved wife the dwelling-house, with the
stables, lands, and appurtenances thereunto belonging, now occupied by
me, being the dwelling-house numbered thirty-seven in Beacon-street,
Boston, to have and to hold the same to her, her heirs and assigns for
ever.

    [Sidenote: And all the plate, &c. therein.]

And I do also give and bequeath unto my beloved wife all the plate,
furniture, pictures, statuary, books, stores, and other household
articles, belonging to me at the time of my decease; and it is my wish
that no inventory be taken of the same.

    [Sidenote: Legatees may take property at appraisement, &c.]

And it is also my wish that each and every of the legatees, in said
last Will and Testament named, may, with the advice and consent of my
executors, take, in lieu of the money to which they are entitled by
said last Will and Testament, any of the property, left by me at the
time of my decease, at the appraised value thereof.

    [Sidenote: Bonds of Executors to be only in a penalty
    adequate to protect creditors.]

And I do also direct that the executors of my said last Will and
Testament shall give bonds in such sum only as the Judge of Probate
may consider sufficient for the payment of the amount of my debts.

In witness whereof, I have hereto set my hand and seal, this eighth
day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and
fifty-two.

        (Signed)
                                     SAML. APPLETON [AND A SEAL].

  Signed, sealed, published, and declared by
    said Testator to be a Codicil to his
    last Will and Testament, in presence of
    us, who, at his request, and in his
    presence, and in presence of each other,
    hereto set our names as witnesses.

                           JOSEPH TILDEN.
                           FRANKLIN H. STORY.
                           FRANCIS C. LOWELL.




RECAPITULATION.




RECAPITULATION.


  To the widow (by the Will), $108,000 in personal
    property, and $14,000 in real estate; or all in
    personal property, at her option; and (by the
    Codicil), his mansion-house, and all in it; of
    the value of                                            $200,000

  To the descendants of each of his four brothers
    (Isaac, Moses, Eben, and Nathan Appleton), $60,000.
    To the descendants of each of his two sisters (Mary
    Barrett and Emily Jewett), $30,000. In all               300,000

  To Maria Goodwin, $7000; her mother and two sisters,
    $1000 each                                                10,000

  To Rev. Ephraim Peabody, $5000; and to the servants
    in the family, $5000                                      10,000

  To public uses                                             200,000


All the residue to the said descendants of his brothers and sisters,
in sums corresponding to their respective specific bequests. The
residuary legatees will be therefore entitled to claim in the
following proportions, viz.:--

  ISAAC APPPLETON'S DESCENDANTS, $60,000 out of $300,000, or 1/5;
      viz.:--

     1. Mrs. Sarah Todd, wife of James B. Todd, of Byron,
        N.Y., a legatee of $3000, has                          1/100

     2. Isaac A. Todd, of Byron, N.Y.                          1/100

     3. Mrs. Rachel D. Moore, wife of Tom Moore, of Medina,
        Michigan                                               1/100

     4. Mrs. Emily A. Hall, wife of Alfred D. Hall, of
        Sheridan, Calhoun County, Michigan                     1/100

     5. Dr. Daniel Todd, of Canandaigua, Lenawee County,
        Michigan                                               1/100

     6. Samuel A. Todd, a minor, of Byron, N.Y.                1/100

     7. Francis James Todd, a minor, of Byron, N.Y.            1/100

     8. Mrs. Mary Davis, now wife of Asa Holt, of Ashby,
        Mass.                                                  1/100

     9. Her son, Cyrus A. Davis, of Palestine Grove, Lee
        County, Illinois                                       1/100

    10. Mrs. Harriet G. Kendall, wife of Rev. Henry A.
        Kendall, of Concord, N.H.                              1/100

    11. Her husband, as heir of a deceased daughter            1/100

    12. Their minor son, Henry Kendall                         1/100

    13. Their minor son, Samuel Kendall                        1/100

    14. David Appleton, of Dublin, N.H.                        1/100

    15. Joseph B. Appleton, of Palestine Grove, Lee County,
        Illinois                                               1/100

    16. Eugene F. Appleton, fifteen years old, of New
        Ipswich, N.H.                                          1/100

    17. Mrs. Celestia Bagley, wife of Gilman Bagley, of
        Sharon, N.H.                                           1/100

    18. Mrs. Mary Preston, wife of Edward F. Preston, of
        New Ipswich, N.H.                                      1/100

    19. Mrs. Sarah Davis, wife of John U. Davis, of New
        Ipswich, N.H.                                          1/100

    20. Mrs. Mary Jane Marr, wife of Dennis W. Marr, of
        Portland, Maine                                        1/100


MOSES APPLETON'S CHILDREN, $60,000 out of $300,000, or 1/5; viz.:--

    21. Samuel Appleton, of Waterville, Maine, a legatee of
        $15,000, has                                            1/20

    22. Moses L. Appleton, of Bangor, Maine                     1/20

    23. Mrs. Ann Louisa Wells, wife of Hon. Samuel Wells,
        of Portland, Maine                                      1/20

    24. Mrs. Mary Jane Plaisted, wife of Dr. Samuel
        Plaisted, of Waterville, Maine                          1/20


EBEN APPLETON'S CHILDREN, $60,000 out of $300,000, or 1/5; viz.:--

    25. Samuel A. Appleton, of Boston, being a legatee of
        $25,000, has                                            1/12

    26. William S. Appleton, of Baltimore, M.D.                 1/12

    27. Mrs. Caroline F. Blatchford, wife of Samuel
        Blatchford, of Auburn, N.Y., a legatee of $10,000       1/30

NATHAN APPLETON'S CHILDREN, $60,000 out of $300,000, or 1/5; viz.:--

    28. Mrs. Mary Mackintosh, wife of His Excellency Robert
        James Mackintosh, Governor of the Island of Antigua,
        &c. a legatee of $10,000, has                           1/30

    29. Mrs. Fanny E. Longfellow, wife of Prof. Henry W.
        Longfellow, of Cambridge, Mass.                         1/30

    30. Thomas G. Appleton, of Boston                           1/30

    31. Harriot Appleton, of Boston, a minor                    1/30

    32. William S. Appleton, of Boston, a minor                 1/30

    33. Nathan Appleton, of Boston, a minor                     1/30


MRS. BARRETT'S and MRS. JEWETT'S CHILDREN, $60,000 out of $300,000,
or 1/5; viz.:--

    34. Mrs. Mary Narcissa Bent, wife of Samuel W. Bent,
        of Middlebury, Vt., a legatee of $15,000, has           1/20

    35. Mrs. Dora E. Spalding, wife of Dr. Edward Spalding,
        of Nashua, N.H.                                         1/20

    36. Isaac Appleton Jewett's half-sister and heir-at-law,
        Mrs. Harriet E. Ide, wife of Dr. William E. Ide,
        of Columbus, Ohio, a legatee of $30,000                 1/10

       *       *       *       *       *






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Will of Samuel Appleton, by 
Samuel Appleton and Nathaniel Ingersoll  Bowditch

